UNREST IN UKRAINE, STOKED BY
PRO-RUSSIAN PROTESTERS, MOBS AND
MILITANTS, SPREAD TO MORE CITIES
IN THE COUNTRY'S EAST,
THREATENING KIEV'S CONTROL OF
THE REGION.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT:
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS FROM THE
ASIAN NATION OF MYANMAR.
A COUNTRY TAKING SMALL STEPS
TOWARD HEALING AFTER YEARS OF
WAR AND REBELLION.
>> Brown: NOT LONG AGO, THIS WAS
AN AREA OF VIOLENCE.
HOME TO WHAT WAS OFTEN CALLED
THE WORLD'S LONGEST-LASTING
CIVIL WAR.
BUT A CEASE-FIRE IS NOW IN
PLACE, OFFERING THE CHANCE FOR
PEACE AND A POSSIBLE MODEL FOR
THIS LONG CLOSED-OFF COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THE SEARCH
FOR THE MISSING MALAYSIAN
JETLINER HAS TURNED TO A ROBOTIC
SUBMARINE TO SCOUR THE OCEAN
FLOOR, DIVING SOME TWO-AND-A-
HALF MILES UNDER THE SEA.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET GOT THE
WEEK OFF TO A GOOD START, AS
STOCKS RECOVERED GROUND LOST IN
LAST WEEK'S SELL-OFF.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 146 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,173.
THE NASDAQ ROSE ALMOST 23 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,022.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED NEARLY
15 TO FINISH AT 1,830.
A POWERFUL BOMB RIPPED THROUGH A
BUS STATION IN NIGERIA TODAY,
KILLING 71 PEOPLE AND WOUNDING
124.
THE BLAST IN ABUJA WAS THE WORST
TERRORIST ATTACK EVER IN THE
AFRICAN NATION'S CAPITAL.
IT DESTROYED DOZENS OF BUSES AND
CARS, AND LEFT CHARRED, MANGLED
METAL AMID THE BLOOD STAINS.
PRESIDENT GOODLUCK JONATHAN
VISITED THE SCENE AND BLAMED
BOKO HARAM, THE ISLAMIST GROUP
THAT'S KILLED THOUSANDS IN
NIGERIA'S NORTHEAST.
>> Ifill: A WILDFIRE BURNED FOR
A THIRD DAY IN VALPARAISO,
CHILE, AS THE MILITARY MOVED TO
EVACUATE 700 MORE FAMILIES.
THE FIRE, WHICH ERUPTED
SATURDAY, HAS KILLED A DOZEN
PEOPLE, FORCED THOUSANDS TO FLEE
AND DESTROYED 2,000 HOMES.
FIREFIGHTERS WORKED THROUGH THE
NIGHT TO CONTAIN FLAMES BEING
WHIPPED BY PACIFIC OCEAN WINDS.
TODAY, AIR AND GROUND CREWS
TRIED TO KEEP THE BLAZE FROM
CONSUMING EVEN MORE HOMES.
>> ( translated ): IT IS VERY
HARD TO BE IN A PLACE WHERE YOU
GREW UP, PLAYED, RAN, AND HAD A
GOOD TIME, SHARED WITH SO MANY
PEOPLE AND TODAY NO ONE HAS
ANYTHING.
TO BE BURNED LIKE THIS, IN
RUINS, IT'S AS IF A WAR HAS
HAPPENED.
>> Ifill: THE CHILEAN FORESTRY
AGENCY WARNED IT COULD TAKE
ANOTHER 20 DAYS TO EXTINGUISH
THE FIRE.
SYRIA HAS NOW SHIPPED OUT ABOUT
TWO-THIRDS OF THE RAW MATERIALS
FOR CHEMICAL WEAPONS THAT IT
ADMITS TO HAVING.
BUT, THE "ORGANIZATION FOR THE
PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS"
SAID TODAY DAMASCUS STILL HAS A
LONG WAY TO GO TO MEET A
JUNE 30TH DEADLINE.
A U.N. AGREEMENT MANDATES THAT
SYRIA'S ENTIRE CHEMICAL
STOCKPILE BE DESTROYED BY THAT
DATE.
EXPOSES ON GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE WON PULITZER PRIZES
TODAY FOR "THE WASHINGTON POST"
AND "THE GUARDIAN," IN THE
PUBLIC SERVICE CATEGORY.
THEIR STORIES WERE BASED ON
LEAKS BY EDWARD SNOWDEN, A
FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
WORKER.
THE "BOSTON GLOBE" WON FOR
BREAKING NEWS COVERAGE OF THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING.
"NEW YORK TIMES" IMAGES OF ONE
BOSTON VICTIM'S RECOVERY TOOK
THE FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY PRIZE.
THE TIMES ALSO WON FOR BREAKING
NEWS PHOTOS OF THE MALL ATTACK
IN NAIROBI, KENYA.
IN THE ARTS, DONNA TARTT WON THE
FICTION PRIZE FOR HER NOVEL,
"THE GOLDFINCH."
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE
CONTINUING DEBATE OVER THOSE
SURVEILLANCE STORIES, LATER IN
THE PROGRAM.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE WIDENING UNREST IN EASTERN
UKRAINE; A LOOK AT THE DEADLY
SHOOTINGS NEAR KANSAS CITY;
MYANMAR TRIES TO MOVE ON AFTER
YEARS OF REBELLION; PLUS, THE
ROBOT TAKING THE SEARCH FOR THE
MISSING JETLINER 15,000 FEET
UNDER THE SEA.
FEDERAL AND STATE
AUTHORITIES CONTINUE THEIR
INVESTIGATION TODAY INTO THE
SHOOTINGS IN KANSAS THAT
LEFT THREE PEOPLE DEAD.
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES
CONFIRMED IT TODAY, THEY
BELIEVE THE PASSOVER EVE
SHOOTINGS AT TWO JEWISH
COMMUNITY SITES WERE
MOTIVATED BY
>> WE HAVE UNQUESTIONABLY
DETERMINED THROUGH THE WORK OF
LOCAL AND FEDERAL AUTHORITIES
THAT THIS WAS A HATE CRIME.
WE NEEDED THE VERIFICATION OF
SOME INVESTIGATION TO MAKE THIS
DETERMINATION.
IT'S MORE THAN JUST AN OPINION,
IT'S ACTUALLY A LEGAL STATUS.
>> Ifill: THE SUSPECT IN
SUNDAY'S SHOOTINGS, 73-YEAR-OLD
FRAZIER GLENN CROSS, ALSO FACES
STATE CHARGES OF FIRST-DEGREE
MURDER.
POLICE SAY THAT CROSS IS ALSO
KNOWN AS FRAZIER GLENN MILLER, A
FORMER GRAND DRAGON OF THE KU
KLUX KLAN.
AFTER HIS ARREST, HE YELLED NAZI
SLOGANS FROM A PATROL CAR.
THE GUNMAN'S FIRST TARGET WAS A
POPULAR JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER,
WHERE TWO PEOPLE DIED, A 14-
YEAR-OLD BOY AND HIS
GRANDFATHER, WHO WAS DROPPING
HIM OFF FOR A SINGING
COMPETITION.
THEY WERE NOT JEWISH.
TODAY THE BOY'S MOTHER, MINDY
CORPORON, SPOKE TO REPORTERS.
>> PEOPLE KEEP SAYING HOW COME
YOU'RE SO STRONG AND I'M STRONG
BECAUSE I HAVE FAMILY, I'M
STRONG BECAUSE I HAVE FAITH, I
KNOW THAT GOD DID NOT DO THIS, I
KNOW THAT THERE ARE EVIL, EVIL
ACTIONS BUT WHAT WE DO HAVE IS
EACH OTHER, AND WE HAVE LOVE AND
WE HAVE PRAYER AND WE HAVE
FRIENDS.
HE WAS WITH US FOR WONDERFUL 14
YEARS HE HAD REALLY FULL LIFE
FOR A 14 YEAR OLD, AND WE WERE
VERY BLESSED.
>> Ifill: A THEATER COACH SAYS
SHE HUDDLED INSIDE, IN LOCKDOWN,
FOR ABOUT 90 MINUTES WITH A
GROUP OF CHILDREN IN HER CARE.
>> IT WAS REALLY SCARY, I
THOUGHT THAT I WAS FINE AND
UNDER CONTROL AND WHEN I CALLED
MY MOM AND SHE STARTED CRYING
AND THEN I STARTED CRYING I KIND
OF JUST COULDN'T HELP THINKING
OF SANDY HOOK, LOOKING AROUND AT
THESE VERY YOUNG CHILDREN, I WAS
REALLY SCARED.
>> Ifill: MINUTES LATER, A THIRD
PERSON WAS KILLED OUTSIDE A
JEWISH ASSISTED LIVING CENTER,
ABOUT A MILE AWAY.SHE, TOO, WAS.
IN WASHINGTON THIS MORNING,
PRESIDENT OBAMA JOINED IN
CONDEMNING THE ATTACK.
>> NOBODY SHOULD HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT THEIR SECURITY WHEN
GATHERING WITH THEIR FELLOW
BELIEVERS.
NO ONE SHOULD EVER HAVE TO FEAR
FOR THEIR SAFETY WHEN THEY GO TO
PRAY.
>> WE HAVE TO STAND UNIONED
AGAINST THIS KIND OF
TERRIBLE VIOLENCE WHICH HAS
NO PLACE IN OUR SOCIETY.
>> CROSS HAS NOT YET
APPEARED IN COURT.
FORMAL CHARGE KOS COME
TOMORROW.
THEY HAVE BEEN KEEPING AN
EYE ON THE SUSPECT IN THIS
LATEST CRIME FOR SOME TIME.
MARK POTOK OF THE CENTER HAS
MORE ABOUT HIS HISTORY, AND
BELIEFS.
HE JOINS US FROM MONTGOMERY,
ALABAMA.
WELCOME.
SO THE AUTHORITIES SAID
TODAY THE FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES, U.S. ATTORNEY
ILY A
HATE CRIME.
SO START OFF FOR US,
DEFINING WHAT THAT MEANS.
>> WELL, A HATE CRIME SIMPLY
MEANS A CRIME THAT IS MOOD
VATED LARGELY OR IN WHOLE BY
A PARTICULAR TYPE OF
PREJUDICE.
IT VARIES ACCORDING TO THE
STATE LAW BUT GENERALLY IT'S
SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE,
RELIGION, ETHNICITY, THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS.
SO AND THE CLASSIC HATE
CRIME IS WHERE A PERSON
KILLS ANOTHER PERSON WHO HE
DOESN'T KNOW AT ALL.
AND THAT IS PRECISELY WHAT
APPEARS TO HAVE HAPPENED
HERE.
IT SEEMS THAT CROSS
ALLEGEDLY MURDERED PEOPLE
SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY WERE
JEWISH OR HE THOUGHT THEY
WERE JEWISH, WRONGLY.
>> Ifill: THAT'S AN
IMPORTANT POINT, DOES IT
MATTER WHETHER THE VICTIMS
WERE ACTUALLY OF THE GROUP
THAT HE WAS SEEKING TO
TERRORIZE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT T HAS NO
LEGAL MEANING AT ALL.
IT'S SIMPLY WHAT HE THOUGHT
HE WAS DOING.
>> Ifill: SO TELL US ABOUT
FRANKLIN CROSS, WHAT DO YOU
KNOW?
>> WE HAVE KNOWN HIM AS
FRAZIER GLENN MILLER BEFORE
HE APPARENTLY LEGALLY
CHANGED HIS NAME TO CROSS.
AS A GRAND DRAGON OF A GROUP
CALLED THE CAROLINA KNIGHTS
OF THE INCLUDE KLUX CLAN IN
THE EARLY 80s.
HE LATER FORMED A GROUP
PARTY. THE WHITE PATRIOT
BOTH OF THESE GROUPS WERE
ESSENTIALLY KLAN GROUPS BUT
VERY PARA MILITARY IN
ORIENTATION.
THEY MARCHED THROUGH THE
STREETS WITH GUNS.
THEY WORE FAT AGENCIES THAT
KIND OF THING.
WE GOT INVOLVED BECAUSE WE
SUED THE WHITE PATRIOT PARTY
IN THE CAROLINA KNIGHTS OVER
THEIR INTIMIDATION OF BLACK
PEOPLE IN NORTH CAROLINA,
AND ALSO THEIR OPERATING OF
A PARAMILITARY ORGANIZATION
IT TURNED OUT THEY WERE
ACTUALLY BEING TRAINED AND
SUPPLIED WITH STOLEN WEAPONS
BY ACTIVE DUTY MARINES AT
FT. BRAGG.
SO IT WAS QUITE A SCANDAL AT
THE TIME.
ULTIMATELY GLENN MILLER,
AGREED TO BREAK UP HIS GROUP
TO STOP THE PARAMILITARY
ORGANIZATION.
HE BROKE THAT AGREEMENT.
WAS CONVICTED OF CONTEMPT,
WENT ON THE LAM AND WAS A
FUGITIVE UNTIL THE FBI FOUND
HIM IN 1987 IN A TRAILER
FILLED WITH EXPLOSIVES, WITH
GRENADES, WITH WEAPONS.
AND AS IT HAPPENS, ALSO A
PLAN TO MURDER, TO
ASSASSINATE THE FOUNDER OF
THE SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW
CENTER WHERE I WORK, MORRIS
DEES.
THOUGHSO THAT WAS OUR
ORIGINAL ENCOUNTER WITH
GLENN MILLER.
>> Ifill: SO IF IT TURNS OUT
HE INDEED IS FOUND GUILTY OF
A HATE CRIME WHAT IS THE
PENALTY, MORE HE IS VORE
THAN IF HE WAS JUST FOUND
GUILTY OF AN ATTEMPTED OR
COMMITTED MURDER?
NK IN THIS CASEK SO.
HE CAN BE CHARGED UNDER
STATE LAW WITH A CAPITAL
CRIME.
THE FEDERAL HATE CRIME
STATUTE DOES NOT HAVE I
DEATH PENALTY PROVISION IN
ANY CASE.
THERE ARE SOME CIVIL RIGHTS
LAWS THAT COULD BRING THE
DEATH PENALTY TO BEAR BUT I
DON'T THINK-- YOU CAN'T GET
ANY WORSE THAN DEATH AND
THAT IS WHAT HE IS LIKELY
GOING TO BE TRIED FOR IN THE
STATE.
>> Ifill: IT IS EASY TO
DISMISS PEOPLE WHO MAKE
THESE KINDS OF THREATS OF
SIMPLY BEING MAYBE NOT SO
SIMPLE, UNBALANCED.
HOW DO YOU MAKE THE
DISTINCTION ABOUT WHEN THEY
CROSS THE LINE INTO BEING
DANGEROUS IN A WAY THEY CAN
HELP HEAD OFF AT THE PASS
THESE KINDS OF ATTACKS?
>> WELL, TWO THINGS.
ONE, I THINK IT'S A MISTAKE
TO DESCRIBE ALL PEOPLE IN
THE EXTREME OR EVEN MOST
PEOPLE AS MENTALLY ILL IT
THAT IS A WAY OF PUSHING THE
WAY AND SAYING IT REALLY HAS
NOTHING TO DO WITH-- IN OUR
SOCIETY.
THE REALITY IS OUR SOCIETY
IS CHANGING.
WE ARE BECOMING LESS WHITE
IT THAT OF COURSE VERY MUCH
REPRESENTED IN THE ELECTION
OF A BLACK PRESIDENT.
AND PEOPLE LIKE GLENN MILLER
ARE REACTING.
NOW GLENN MILLER IS A
PARTICULARLY VICIOUS AND
VIOLENT MAN.
CERTAINLY IN HIS RHETORIC
OVER THE YEARS AND THE KINDS
OF THINGS HE'S TRIED TO DO.
YOU KNOW, THERE REALLY, BUT
THE REALITY, OF COURSE B
SOMEBODY LIKE GLENN MILLER
IS THAT WHEN HE SAYS THAT
THE WORLD WOULD BE A
WONDERFUL PLACE IF ONLY WE
KILLED ALL THE JEWS, HE IS
100% PROTECTED BY THE FIRST
AMENDMENT TO THE
CONSTITUTION.
SO IT'S VERY HARD TO LOOK AT
SOMEONE LIKE GLENN MILLER
WHO DIDN'T DO MUCH FOR THE
LAST 20 YEARS OTHER THAN
PUBLISH PROPAGANDA SAY
HE LOOKS LIKE HE IS ABOUT TO
COMMIT A MASS SHOOTING.
I DON'T THINK THERE WAS
REALLY ANY INDICATION THAT
THAT WAS COMING.
ODY
WATCHING WHO IS A LITTLE
CONFUSED, I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THIS MAN GOES BY A COUPLE
DIFFERENT FRAMES, FRANKLIN
GLEN CROSS, GLENN MILLER,
FRANKLIN MILLER SO,
EVERYBODY KNOWS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE SAME
PERSON ARE.
PEOPLE LIKE THIS ALWAYS
LONERS, INDIVIDUALS, OR ARE
THERE CONSPIRACIES WE SHOULD
BE KEEPING AN EYE ON OR THAT
YOU ARE KEEPING AN EYE ON?
>> MUCH, MUCH MORE OFTEN
THAN NOT THESE DAYS THEY ARE
LONERS, SO-CALLED LONE
WOLVES.
AND THAT IS LARGELY BECAUSE
CONSPIRACIES TEND TO BE
FOUND OUT SO VERY QUICKLY
AND OFTEN QUITE EASYLY BY
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
ACTUALLY A WHOLE GROUP OF
PEOPLE ACTUALLY PLAN A CRIME
OR DOMESTIC TERRORIST ATTACK,
THEY WILL VERY LIKELY ALL GO
DOWN, IF EVEN ONLY ONE OF
THEM IS CAUGHT.
SO TODAY ALMOST ALL OF THESE
ATTACKS, CERTAINLY THE MOST
DANGEROUS ATTACKS COME FROM
LONE WOLVES OR PEOPLE WITH
OPERATING WITH JUST ONE OR
TWO FRIENDS LIKE, FOR
INSTANCE, TIMOTHY McVEIGH
AND THE BOMBING OF THE
OKLAHOMA CITY FEDERAL
BUILDING IN 1995.
>> Ifill: AT WHAT POINT, YOU
MENTIONED TIM KNEE McVEIGH,
THAT IS AN EXAMPLE.
AT WHAT POINT DO WE BEGIN TO
TREAT THESE KINDS AV TACKS
AS DOMESTIC TERRORISM, NOT
JUST AS HATE CRIMES OR
INDIVIDUAL ACTS?
>> WELL, I MEAN, THEY ARE
DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
LET'S BE PLAIN.
THERE IS NOTHING TO
DISTINGUISH THIS FROM OTHER
FORMS OF TERRORISM.
IT IS A WAY N THIS CASE.
TERRORIZING THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY AROUND KANSAS CITY
IN PARTICULAR BUT AROUND THE
COUNTRY IN GENERAL.
AND THAT'S WHAT TERRORISM
IS.
IT'S A CRIMINAL ACT THAT IS
AIMED AT FAR MORE PEOPLE
THAN THE IMMEDIATE VICTIMS.
YOU KNOW, THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT HAS BEEN OFF AND
ON ABOUT BEING CANDID ABOUT
THE TERRORIST NATURE OF
THESE ATTACKS.
BUT I THINK TODAY BY AND
LARGE AMERICAN LAW ENFORCE
SUSPECT PERFECTLY WELL AWARE
THAT THERE IS A VERY SERIOUS
DOMESTIC RADICAL RIGHT AND
SOME PEOPLE WITHIN THAT
MILIEU ARE, IN FACT,
TERRORISTS.
>> AND WE EXPECT FORMAL
CHARGES TO BE BROUGHT
AGAINST HIM TOMORROW.
MARK POTOK OF THE SOUTHERN
POVERTY LAW CENTER, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> A PLEASURE, THANKS FOR
HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: NOW, TO UKRAINE,
WHERE THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
APPEALED TODAY FOR U.N.
PEACEKEEPERS.
THAT'S AFTER PRO-RUSSIAN GUNMEN
DEFIED DEMANDS TO SURRENDER.
THEY NOW CONTROL KEY BUILDINGS
IN TEN EASTERN CITIES.
WE BEGIN OUR COVERAGE WITH A
REPORT FROM LINDSEY HILSUM, OF
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS.
SHE'S IN UKRAINE.
>> THEY MAY LOOK LIKE A
DISORGANIZED MOB BUT THE
AUTHORITIES IN KIEV WERE
SURE THAT THE MEN THAT
ATTACKED THE POLICE BEING
TODAY WERE ACTING ON ORDERS
FROM MOSCOW.
THE CROWD THAT GATHERED WAS
ENTHUSIASTIC, BUT WESTERN
JOURNALISTS WERE NOT
WELCOMED.
THE POLICE INSIDE DIDN'T GET
MUCH CHOICE.
IF THEY REMAIN LOYAL TO KIEV
THEY WOULD BE BEATEN UP.
THE CROWD CHANTED BRING THE
REAL GOVERNMENT.
>> WE DEMAND THE PEOPLE'S
HEAD OF INTERNAL AFFAIRS IN
THIS REGION THIS IS OUR ONLY
DEMAND, FOR THAT PERSON TO
SUPPORT THE PEOPLE.
ALL THE HEADS OF REGIONAL
ADMINISTRATION HAVE SWITCHED
TO THE SIZE OF THE PEOPLE
AND REFUSE TO RECOGNIZE THE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE
INTRUDERS RAISED A RUSSIAN
FLAG AND GOT RID OF THE
UKRAINIAN COLORS.
>> A FEW STREETS AWAY WE SAW
A GROUP OF YOUNG MEN
MARCHING AROUND TOWN
CARRYING THE RUSSIAN FLAG.
PEOPLE SEEMED UNSETTLED BY
THE TURN OF EVENTS THAT HAD
NO FAITH IN THE AUTHORITIES
IN KIEV.
>> FOR SURE THEY MUST
CONSIDER THE OPINION OF THE
PEOPLE IN THE SOUTHEAST.
THEY PUT US DOWN.
WE WANT THEM TO HEAR OUR
OPINIONS.
WE WANT A REFERENDUM AND
RUSSIAN TO BE AN OFFICIAL
LANGUAGE.
>> Reporter: IN THE
>> Reporter: IN THE REGIONAL
CAPITAL, A GROUP CALLING ITSELF
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF DONETSK
HAS CONTROLLED THE MUNICIPALOR K
NOW.
THE PRO-RUSSIAN GROUPS OCCUPYING
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS LIKE THIS
ACROSS THE DONETSK REGION TOOK
ABSOLUTELY NO NOTICE OF THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT'S DEADLINE
THIS MORNING.
THAT MAKES THE AUTHORITIES IN
KIEV LOOK WEAK.
AND IF PRESIDENT PUTIN'S AIM IS
TO DESTABILIZE EASTERN UKRAINE,
HE'S SUCCEEDING.
THEY'RE CALLING FOR A REFERENDUM
ON DONETSK BECOMING INDEPENDENT.
SORT OF.
>> I DON'T WANT LISTEN KIEV.
I DON'T WANT TO LISTEN EUROPE OR
UNITED STATES.
THAT'S WHY.
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT MOSCOW?
>> MOSCOW, THEY ARE OUR
BROTHERS.
>> Reporter: AT THE ENTRANCE TO
THE TOWN OF SLOVIANSK, SEIZED BY
PRO-RUSSIAN FORCES YESTERDAY,
THEY BELIEVE THEY HAVE GOD ON
THEIR SIDE.
BUT IF PRAYER IS NOT ENOUGH,
BEHIND THE BARRICADES OF TIRES,
THEY HAD MOLOTOV COCKTAILS AT
THE READY.
NO NEED.
THERE WAS NO SIGN OF THE ANTI-
TERROR OPERATION TO DISLODGE
THEM, PROMISED BY THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT.
THE MAN IN CHARGE INSISTED THAT
A LOCAL CAMERA CREW FILM US.
IT WOULD BE EVIDENCE, HE SAID,
IF HE TOOK US TO COURT FOR
FAILING TO TELL THE TRUTH AS HE
SAW IT.
>> ( translated ): I SPEAK
RUSSIAN.
I LIVE IN RUSSIA, NO, I, I MEAN
IN UKRAINE.
LOOK, THE SITUATION IS AS
OW TOO MANY
PROVOCATEURS AND THAT'S WHY WE
DUPLICATE THE VIDEO OF ALL THE
REPORTERS WHO COME HERE TO FILM.
SO WE CAN SEE IF YOU CHANGE THE
INFORMATION.
AND WE WILL TELL THE WHOLE WORLD
THAT YOURS IS THE WORST CHANNEL.
>> Reporter: INSIDE SLOVIANSK,
CROWDS GATHERED.
AND THE MEN IN CHARGE FELT
SECURE ENOUGH TO HOLD A PRESS
CONFERENCE.
>> ( translated ): DEAR
PRESIDENT OF THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION, VLADIMIR PUTIN.
WE ASK YOU TO LOOK PERSONALLY
INTO THE CURRENT SITUATION AND
HELP US TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE.
IN A SIGN OF UNITY OF THE TWO
BROTHERLY NATIONS, WE WILL RAISE
THE FLAG OF DONETSK REPUBLIC
NEXT TO THE FLAG OF THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION.
>> NOTHING DISORGANIZED
ABOUT THOSE IN CONTROL HERE.
THEY WERE PROFESSIONAL
SOLDIERS WITH ALL THE-- AND
THEY LOOKS UNCANILY LIKE THE
MEN WHO SEIZED IN CRIMEA IN
FEBRUARY JUST BEFORE A
HASTILY ORGANIZED REFERENDUM
AND ANNEXATION BY RUSSIA.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTIN SPOKE BY
PHONE THIS AFTERNOON, BUT THE
WHITE HOUSE GAVE NO DETAILS.
SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY DID SAY THE
U.S. IS LOOKING FOR WAYS TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE, BUT NOT WITH
ANY KIND OF LETHAL AID.
SO WHO IS BEHIND THESE
SEPARATIST TAKE-OVERS IN EASTERN
UKRAINE?
FOR AN ASSESSMENT OF THE
SITUATION THERE WE TURN ONCE
AGAIN TO ADRIAN KARATNYCKY, A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE ATLANTIC
COUNCIL.
HE JUST RETURNED FROM A TRIP TO
UKRAINE EARLIER THIS MONTH.
AND MICHAEL MCFAUL WAS U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA FROM 2012
UNTIL THIS PAST FEBRUARY.
HE'S NOW A PROFESSOR OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE AT STANFORD
UNIVERSITY.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH, ADRIAN
KARATNYCKY, WHO ARE THESE
PEOPLE, THEY APPEAR TO BE IN
CAME FLOUJ UNIFORMED, VERY
WELL ARMED T SEEMS
ORCHESTRATED, WHAT IS KNOWN?
>> IT IS ALREADY KNOWN
BECAUSE OF-- CONVERSATIONS
ON INTERNAL
COMMUNICATIONS THAT HAVE
BEEN REVEALED BY THE
UKRAINIAN SECURITY FORCES
THAT THESE PEOPLE ARE ACTING
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF
RUSSIAN MINDERS.
IN FACT, THE PERSON WHO
ORCHESTRATED THE POLITICAL
TECHNOLOGIST WHO
ORCHESTRATED THE TAKEOVER OF
CRIMEA IS NOW THEIR POINT OF
CONTACT.
THESE PEOPLE ARE PERHAPS
PERHAPS SOME OF THEM
REDEPLOYED FORCES FROM
CRIMEA.
EY MANY OF
THEM AS YET.
PROBABLY LESS THAN A COUPLE
HUNDRED.
THEY ARE NOT DEPLOYED IN ALL
THE CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE
BEEN THESE KINDS OF
TAKEOVERS BUT GENERALLY THE
TYPICAL PATTERN IS 20 OR SO
OF THESE SOLDIERS HEAVILY
ARMED, SEMI AUCTION, AUCTION
WEAPONS, GRENADE LAUNCHERS
MOVED QUICKLY, LIGHTNING
BOLT SPEED.
THEY OVERWHELM LOCAL POLICE
WHO BASICALLY ARE CARRYING
PISTOLS AND LIGHT FIREARMS.
THEY IMMEDIATELY ARE
FOLLOWED BY A GROUP OF 50 TO
100 BLACK MASKED THUGS WHO
ARE ALSO, WHO PROBABLY ARE
PEOPLE WHO ARE USED IN THE
VIOLENCE AGAINST THE PROTEST
MOVEMENT THAT BROUGHT DOWN
MR. YANUKOVYCH WHEN
THOUSANDS OF THESE THUGS AND
STRONG MEN AND GROUPS FROM
CRIMINAL GANGS WERE USED TO
SUPPRESS AND ACTUALLY TO
ABDUCT AND TO KILL PROTESTORS.
AND THEN THE THIRD LAYER IS
A COMBINATION OF I WOULD SAY
FRINGE PRO RUSSIAN GROUPS
AND FAIRLY POOR PEOPLE WHO
APPARENTLY ARE BEING PAID
ABOUT 50 DOLLARS A DAY WHICH
IS A LOT OF MONEY IN UKRAINE
TO COME OUT AND PROTEST.
AND THERE ARE PHONE NUMBERS
THAT HAVE BEEN REVEALED AND
PEOPLE HAVE MADE PHONE CALLS,
JOURNALISTS TO A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO ARE ORGANIZING
THESE GROUPS.
THEY ARE OFFERING MONEY FOR
PARTICIPATION.
SOME PEOPLE ARE
PARTICIPATING LEGITIMATELY
BUT IN MOST CASES IF YOU
LOOK AT THE CROWDS YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT 500 PEOPLE, A
THOUSAND PEOPLE.
YOU DON'T HAVE KIND OF THE
GROUNDSWELL OF THE MES
THE POPULATION IN ANY OF
THESE CITY CENTERS.
AND AS IMPORTANTLY, IN THE
MAIN CENTER IN DONEST, YOU
DON'T SEEM TO HAVE CLEARLY
THE SUPPORT OF THE POLITICAL
ELITES.
THE POLITICAL ELITES ARE
BIDING THEIR TIME.
I THINK THEY'RE USING THESE
PROTESTS TO NEGOTIATE A
STRONGER BARGAIN WITH KIEV.
BUT I THINK THEY ARE PLAYING
WITH FIRE.
BASICALLY I WOULD SAY THERE
IS A SUBSTANTIAL RUSSIAN
COORDINATED MILITARY AND
PARAMILITARY ENGAGEMENT.
AND I WOULD BELIEVE THAT
THERE MAY BE A HAND OF
MR. YANUKOVYCH AND HIS
FORMER INTERIOR MINISTER WHO
BUILT THESE NETWORKS OF
THUGS TO SUPPRESS PROTESTS
AND NOW ARE ACROSS THE
BORDER 100 MILES OR SO FROM
THE UKRAINIAN BORDER, AND
THEY, I BELIEVE, ARE HELPING
TO COORDINATE OR IN
COOPERATION WITH RUSSIAN
SECURITY SERVICES AND THE
RUSSIAN MILITARY
INTELLIGENCE, HELPING TO
COORDINATE AND TO BRING TO
BEAR ALL THOSE ASSETS IN THE
SERVICE OF THIS THEATRE AND
OF THIS WHAT I WOULD CALL IN
SOME CASES ACTS OF TERRORISM.
>> Woodruff: ADRIAN
KARATNYCKY, YOU ANSWERED
SEVERAL QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW
WELL ORGANIZED IT IS AND HOW
MUCH SUPPORT THERE IS AMONG
THE GENERAL POPULATION.
MICHAEL McFAUL WHAT DOES
THIS IS A THAT RUSSIA WANTS,
THERE ARE TROOPS ON THE
BORDER BUT THE RUSSIAN
LEADERSHIP, WE KNOW PUTIN
AND OTHERS HAVE TALKED ABOUT
A FEDERATION.
WHAT SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT IS
RUSSIA LOOKING FOR IN
UKRAINE?
>> WELL, FIRST AND FOREMOST,
THEY'RE NOT LOOKING FOR A
SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR A WEAK
GOVERNMENT.
THEY'RE TRYING TO UNDERMINE
WHAT THEY CONSIDER WHAT THEY
CALL THE IL LEGITIMATE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV.
AND THEY'RE BEING RATHER
SUCCESSFUL AT IT.
AS ADRIAN I THINK VERY
ELOQUENTLY AND COMPREHENSIVELY
JUST DESCRIBED, THIS IS A
VERY EFFECTIVE CAMPAIGN.
AND THE GOVERNMENTS IN KIEV
NOW LOOKS WEAK.
PEOPLE ON THE RIGHT ARE
CRITICIZING THE GOVERNMENT
FOR BEING INEFFECTIVE.
AND SO WHAT THE LONG-TERM
OBJECTIVE MAY BE UNCLEAR.
THE SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVES
ARE VERY CLEAR THAT IS TO
DESTABILIZE THE GOVERNMENT
OF UKRAINE.
>> MICHAEL McFAUL STAYING
WITH YOU, JUST TO DRILL IN
ON THIS A LITTLE BIT MORE
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN A GOVERNMENT IN
UKRAINE, THE RUSSIAN KOS
LIVE WITH AND SOMETHING THEY
CAN'T AND WON'T LIVE WITH.
>> YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK
VLADIMIR PUTIN KNOWS THE
ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION
HIMSELF RIGHT NOW.
LET'S BE CLEAR THAT HE
PIVOTED AFTER A DIFFERENT
KIND OF STRATEGY THAT HE WAS
FOLLOWING FOR YEARS, WHERE
HE THOUGHT HE COULD
ECONOMICALLY DOMINATE ALL OF
UKRAINE.
THAT FELL THROUGH FOR HIM.
AND HE THEN MOVED INTO
CRIMEA.
AND THAT WAS A TACTICAL
REACTIONARY MOVE.
AND FOR HIM IT SEEMS LIKE
IT'S BEEN PRETTY COST-FREE
SO HE IS ENCOURAGED TO GO
FURTHER.
AND I THINK THAT IS WHAT YOU
ARE SEEING IN EASTERN
UKRAINE RIGHT NOW.
I DON'T WANT TO PRETEND THAT
I KNOW HIS FINAL OUTCOME,
WHAT HE SAYS.
I KNOW WHAT HE SAYS, WHICH
IS THEY WANT A FEDERAL
SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT; THEY
WANT A GOVERNMENT THAT
LISTENS TO THE PEOPLE THAT
SPEAK RUSSIAN AND ARE
ETHNICALLY RUSSIAN IN
EASTERN UKRAINE BUT THERE
ARE LOTS OF WAYS THAT THAT
COULD BE DONE WITHOUT
MILITARY INTERVENTION.
ARMED MILITARY INTERVENTION
IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: ADRIAN CAR A
AT-- KARATNYCKY, THE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV HAVE
SEVERAL TIMES GIVEN
DEADLINES AND THOSE
DEADLINES HAVE PASSED.
WHAT ABILITY DO THEY HAVE TO
STOP WHAT IS GOING ON?
>> I GUESS UKRAINIANS DON'T
HAVE THE TRADITION THAT
THESE DOOR ROOSEVELT, SPEAK
SOFTLY AND CARRY A BIG STICK
THIS HE SEEM TO BE ON
FACEBOOK, POSTING AND
MAYBING ALL SORTS OF DEMANDS
AND THEY ARE LOOKING VERY
WEEK.
-- WEAK, I DO THINK THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT DOES
NOT WANT A BLOODBATH.
I THINK THEY HAVE ALREADY
MADE, IF THEY ARE KANL
CARRYING OUT MILITARY AND
SECURITY OPERATIONS IN THE
COMING DAYS, I THINK THEY
WILL ONLY TRY TO TARGET
PEOPLE WHO ARE CARRYING
WEAPONS AND TAKE THEM OUT AT
POINTS WHERE THERE MIGHT NOT
BE LARGE KROUSD OF
CIVILIANS.
I THINK THEY ARE TRYING TO
BE VERY CAREFUL NOT TO
PROVOKE A BLOODBATH THAT
MIGHT TURN THE POPULATION
WHICH AT THE MOMENT IS
RELATIVELY PASSIVE IN MANY
OF THESE PLACES, VERY
NERVOUS.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER THESE
GUYS ARE NOT JUST COMING IN
AND TAKING OVER.
THEY'RE CREATING THEIR OWN
GOVERNMENTS.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY GETTING RID
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE ELECTED
AND WHO SEEM TO HAVE IN MOST
OF THESE PLACES ENJOYED THE
SUPPORT OF THE LOCAL YOU
KNOW, THE LOCAL CITIZENRY.
AND NOW THERE'S A SORT OF A
BREAKDOWN OF THE DELIVERY OF
SERVICES.
THERE'S A QUESTION OF
WHETHER MONEY WILL BE COMING
TO BANKS SO PEOPLE WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CASH THEIR
MONTHLY PENSIONS.
AN PEOPLE ARE LIVING
MARGINALLY AND FOR
DAY-TO-DAY.
PEOPLE ARE I THINK BASICALLY
HUNKERING DOWN AND YOU KNOW,
AND STAYING-- AND STAYING AT
HOME.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TO YOU
MICHAEL McFAUL, WHERE IS
THIS HEADED?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S A VERY
DIRE SITUATION.
THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV DOES
NOT HAVE GOOD OPTIONS AS
ADRIAN JUST ELUDED TO
BECAUSE THEY'RE DAMNED IF
THEY DO, DAMNED IF THEY
DON'T.
IF THEY DON'T USE ACTION,
THEY LOOK WEAK.
IF THEY DO USE ACTION THAT
CREATES A PRETEXT FOR
ER RUSSIAN
INTERVENTION.
I THINK WE'RE OFF TO A VERY
LONG, TROUBLED STANDOFF
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND YOU
CRANE.
I'M VERY PESSIMISTIC ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT, ON
THAT NOTE WE THANK YOU BOTH,
MICHAEL McFAUL.
ADRIAN YOU.
>> Woodruff: IN 2007, THE WORLD
GOT A HORRIFIC PEEK INSIDE THE
CLOSED WORLD OF MYANMAR, THE
COUNTRY FORMERLY KNOWN AS BURMA,
AS THE MILITARY REGIME BRUTALLY
CRUSHED THE SAFFRON REVOLUTION
LED BY MONKS AND STUDENTS
DEMANDING POLITICAL FREEDOM.
IN RECENT YEARS, HOWEVER, THE
GOVERNMENT HAS SIGNALED A NEW
OPENNESS, PROMISING DEMOCRATIC
REFORMS, AND PROPOSING PEACE
TREATIES WITH NUMEROUS ETHNIC
GROUPS IN THE COUNTRY THAT HAVE
BEEN AT WAR WITH THE GOVERNMENT,
IN SOME CASES SINCE THE END OF
WORLD WAR TWO.
JEFFREY BROWN RECENTLY TRAVELED
TO MYANMAR FOR A LOOK.
HERE'S THE FIRST OF HIS REPORTS.
>> Brown: IT IS A LAND LONG
SHROUDED IN MYSTERY.
KEPT ISOLATED FROM THE WORLD FOR
MORE THAN 50 YEARS.
NOW, AS MYANMAR BEGINS TO OPEN
UP, ITS WONDERS AND BEAUTIES
BECOME CLEARER.
BUT SO DO IT'S COMPLEXITIES AND
HUGE DIFFICULTIES.
ONE PLACE TO SEE IT ALL IS HERE
IN KAREN STATE IN THE
SOUTHEASTERN PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
WHERE SIGNS OF THE PAST ARE A
REMINDER OF THE TENUOUS
POLITICAL SITUATION.
NOT LONG AGO THIS WAS AN AREA OF
VIOLENCE, HOME TO WHAT WAS OFTEN
CALLED THE WORLDS LONGEST-
LASTING CIVIL WAR.
AS ETHNIC KAREN PEOPLE FOUGHT
THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FOR
INDEPENDENCE.
BUT A CEASE-FIRE IS NOW IN
PLACE, OFFERING THE CHANCE FOR
PEACE.
AND A POSSIBLE MODEL FOR THIS
LONG CLOSED-OFF COUNTRY.
>> Brown: FOR THESE YOUNG GIRLS,
THEIR FACES ADORNED WITH THE
TRADITIONAL TREE BARK CREAM THAT
WOMEN HERE USE AS SUN BLOCK.
THAT MEANS THE POSSIBILITY OF
COMING TO PAAN, KARENS CAPITAL
CITY, TO ATTEND A GOVERNMENT
ACCREDITED SCHOOL.
THESE ARE THE CHILDREN OF REBELS
WHO LONG BATTLED THAT SAME
GOVERNMENT.
AND THESE GIRLS HAVE SPENT THEIR
ENTIRE LIVES IN AN
INTERNATIONALLY-SPONSORED
REFUGEE CAMP ON THE NEARBY
BORDER WITH THAILAND.
>> I KNOW THEY'VE SIGNED A
CEASE-FIRE.
>> Brown: DOES THAT MAKE YOU
HAPPY?
>> IF  PEOPLE AREN'T FIGHTING
AND DYING, THAT IS MUCH BETTER.
>> Brown: THE GOVERNMENT IS NOW
SEEKING A PERMANENT PEACE TREATY
HERE IN KAREN AND THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY.
IT WONT BE EASY.
BURMANS LIVING IN THE CENTRAL
HEARTLAND MAKE UP THE GREAT
MAJORITY OF THE COUNTRY'S
POPULATION.
BUT ALL AROUND ARE LANDS
OCCUPIED BY NUMEROUS ETHNIC
GROUPS, MORE THAN 100 BY SOME
COUNTS.
MANY HAVE BEEN IN ARMED CONFLICT
WITH THE GOVERNMENT.
HERE IN KAREN, AT LEAST, THE
REBELS SAY THEY'RE READY TO END
THAT.
>> ( translated ): THIS FIGHTING
THAT HAS GONE ON UNTIL NOW, WE
SEE THERE'S NOT BENEFIT FOR OUR
PEOPLE.
THE PEOPLE OF KAREN HAVE
SUFFERED.
THEIR VILLAGES WERE DESTROYED.
>> Brown: MANN THEIN IS A DEPUTY
WITH THE KAREN NATIONAL UNION,
THE POLITICAL WING OF THE REBEL
GROUP.
A FORMER FIGHTER HIMSELF, HE
SMILES AS HE TELLS US OF HIS
DAYS CHASING HIS ENEMY, THE
MILITARY GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): IT WAS NOT A
GAME OF CHASE LIKE CHILDREN
PLAY.
IT WAS ONE THAT INVOLVED GUNS
AND SHOOTING.
>> Brown: BUT NOW, MANN THEIN
SITS ACROSS THE NEGOTIATING
TABLE FROM THE VERY GENERAL HE
ONCE FOUGHT.
>> Brown: DO YOU TRUST THE
MYANMAR GOVERNMENT AND THE
MYANMAR MILITARY?
>> ( translated ): IN ORDER FOR
THERE TO BE TRUST,  THE TRUST
MUST BE BUILT.
JUST AS WE HAVE TO MAKE THEM
TRUST US, THEY HAVE TO DO THINGS
TO SHOW THAT WE CAN TRUST THEM.
>> Brown: A CONTINUING AREA OF
VIOLENCE, A RELIGIOUS CLASH
BETWEEN BUDDHISTS AND MUSLIMS
LIVING IN THE WESTERN STATE OF
RAKHINE, HAS RECENTLY DRAWN
INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION.
IN JANUARY, THE U.N. CONFIRMED A
RIOT THAT LEFT 48 MUSLIMS DEAD.
THE GOVERNMENT CONTINUES TO DENY
THE EVENT OCCURRED.
ANOTHER VERY REAL ISSUE HERE:
WHO GAINS FROM MOVES TOWARD
PEACE?
WHILE MOST PEOPLE IN KAREN ARE
VERY POOR, THE AREA IS RICH IN
NATURAL RESOURCES.
AND THERE ARE WIDESPREAD REPORTS
OF LAND GRABS BY GOVERNMENT
CRONIES.
THIS WOMAN, WHO RAISES PIGS AND
SELLS SOAP OUTSIDE PAAN, WITH
AID FROM A MICRO-FINANCING
COOPERATIVE, WAS SURE OF ONE
THING:
>> ( translated ): PEACE ONLY
BENEFITS THOSE PEOPLE WITH
MONEY, NOT POOR PEOPLE LIKE ME.
>> Brown: WHY NOT?
>> ( translated ): FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE, PEACE MEANS PEOPLE
WITH MONEY JUST DO BUSINESS WITH
EACH OTHER, BUT IT DOESN'T
AFFECT ME.
>> Brown: IT IS, THOUGH,
AFFECTING MANY.
IN YANGON, THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST
CITY, THERE ARE SIGNS OF BUSTLE
AND BUILDING, AS FOREIGN
INVESTORS, SENSING A NEW
BEGINNING FOR THE COUNTRY AND
NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR
THEMSELVES, POUR IN MONEY.
PRESIDENT THEIN SEIN, HIMSELF A
FORMER GENERAL, HAS PROMISED A
DISCIPLINED DEMOCRACY.
UNDER HIS TENURE MANY, THOUGH
NOT ALL, POLITICAL PRISONERS
HAVE BEEN RELEASED.
AND RESTRICTIONS ON THE MEDIA
HAVE BEEN EASED.
THE MOVES WERE ENOUGH TO CAUSE
THE U.S. TO LIFT MOST SANCTIONS.
AND BROUGHT A VISIT BY PRESIDENT
OBAMA LAST YEAR, THE FIRST EVER
BY AN AMERICAN PRESIDENT.
>> CONSIDERING THE VERY RIGID
AND MILITARY RULE IN THE LAST
25 YEARS, THE EXTENT OF REFORM
AND WHAT HAS BEEN ACHIEVED IN
THE LAST TWO YEARS IS QUITE
REMARKABLE.
>> Brown: MIN ZAW OO IS A
DIRECTOR AT THE MYANMAR PEACE
CENTER IN YANGON.
A GOVERNMENT-APPOINTED COMMITTEE
NEGOTIATING A NATIONAL PEACE
TREATY.
BUT HE'S ALSO A FORMER FIGHTER
AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT, WHO LEFT
THE COUNTRY FOR MANY YEARS AND
ONLY RETURNED 15 MONTHS AGO.
BELIEVING HIS FORMER OPPONENTS
ARE ENGAGED IN REAL CHANGE.
>> WHAT THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT
IS DOING IS OPENING UP THIS
PROCESS, SO PEOPLE CAN COME AND
JOIN THE POLITICAL OPENING AND
GRADUALLY STEER THE TRANSITION
TO BROADER PARTICIPATION AND
BROADER REFORM.
THIS IS THE ONLY OPPORTUNITY IN
THE LAST 50 YEARS.
>> Brown: THIS IS IT.
>> THIS IS IT.
>> Brown: WILL THAT ROAD BE
TAKEN BY EVERYONE?
WILL THIS ONE BE TAKEN BY
ANYONE?
ONE OF THE STRANGER SIGHTS IN
THIS COUNTRY, OR PERHAPS
ANYWHERE, IS THIS NEARLY EMPTY
20 LANE HIGHWAY IN NAPIDAW.
THE COUNTRY'S NEW CAPITAL, BUILT
IN THE HINTERLANDS IN 2005 BY
THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT.
IT WAS A HUGELY EXPENSIVE
THE HIGHWAY LEADS TO THE NEW
PARLIAMENT BUILDING.
WHERE ANOTHER SIGN OF MYANMAR'S
CHANGE IS ON DISPLAY: THE
PRESENCE OF AUNG SAN SUU KYI.
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNER,
HELD UNDER HOUSE ARREST FOR 15
YEARS, IS NOW A MEMBER OF
PARLIAMENT.
AND HER PARTY, THE NATIONAL
LEAGUE FOR DEMOCRACY, HAS A
CHANCE TO WIN A MAJORITY OF
SEATS IN NEXT YEAR'S ELECTION.
BUT HUGE BARRIERS REMAIN: THE
CONSTITUTION MANDATES THAT 25%
OF SEATS BE HELD FOR THE
MILITARY.
AND BARS AUNG SAN SUU KYI
HERSELF FROM BEING PRESIDENT
BECAUSE SHE HAS FAMILY MEMBERS,
TWO SONS, WHO HOLD FOREIGN
CITIZENSHIP.
HER PARTY WANTS THE CONSTITUTION
AMENDED.
>> Brown: SO THIS IS WHERE YOU
LIVE WHEN PARLIAMENT IS IN
SESSION?
ZAW MYINT MAUNG, WHO SPENT 18
YEARS AS A POLITICAL PRISONER,
IS TODAY AN N.L.D. PARLIAMENTARY
MEMBER.
NOW SITTING ACROSS THE AI
FROM THE FORMER INTERIOR
MINISTER WHO JAILED THOUSANDS OF
DISSIDENTS LIKE HIM.
>> WHAT THEY DID TO US, WE CAN
FORGIVE THEM.
BUT WHAT THEY DID TO THE
COUNTRY, THAT IS IMPORTANT.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE FUTURE?
ARE YOU HOPEFUL?
>> I CANNOT SAY MUCH ABOUT THE
FUTURE.
OUR PARTY WILL TRY ITS BEST.
THE FUTURE IS PROGRESSING.
BUT IF THEY DO NOT AMEND THE
2008 CONSTITUTION,
I THINK SOME UNREST OR SOME
UPRISING.
>> Brown: REALLY?
THAT'S POSSIBLE AGAIN?
>> THAT'S POSSIBLE.
>> Brown: WHAT ARE THE
>> Brown: WHAT WILL HAPPEN NEXT?
HOW DOES A COUNTRY TRANSITION
FROM CLOSED TO OPEN, FROM
DICTATORSHIP TO DEMOCRACY?
THESE YOUNG STUDENTS AT THE
YANGON SCHOOL OF POLITICAL
SCIENCE DEBATED THOSE QUESTIONS
RECENTLY.
IT WAS THE FIRST TIME IN THEIR
LIVES, THEY TOLD US AFTERWARDS,
THEY COULD STUDY POLITICS
FREELY.
>> Brown: HAS YOUR LIFE CHANGED?
>> I'M A YOUTH.
I CAN HAVE MORE EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES BECAUSE SO MANY
FOREIGN COMPANIES ARE COMING FOR
INVESTMENT IN MYANMAR.
>> Brown: IS IT AN EXCITING
TIME?
>> YES.
IT IS EXCITING.
AND AT THE SAME TIME, ITS ALSO
NERVOUS.
BECAUSE THERE ARE A LOT OF
CHALLENGES.
WE HAVE ETHNIC VIOLENCE.
SO IT'S EXCITING BUT I FEEL
NERVOUS.
>> Brown: A COUNTRY IN A STATE
OF DE-ISOLATION.
POOR, ETHNICALLY DIVIDED, WITH A
VERY TROUBLED PAST.
AND A POTENTIALLY BOOMING
FUTURE: EXCITING BUT NERVOUS.
>> Ifill: TOMORROW, JEFF LOOKS
AT WHAT THIS NEW POLITICAL
OPENNESS MEANS FOR MYANMAR'S
CULTURAL HERITAGE.
AND ON OUR ART BEAT PAGE, YOU
CAN READ JEFF'S TRAVEL JOURNAL,
WHICH IS PART OF HIS SERIES,
"CULTURE AT RISK."
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE SEARCH FOR
THAT MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINER.
IT UNDERWENT A MAJOR SHIFT
TODAY, AS OFFICIALS DECIDED TO
GIVE UP LISTENING FOR PINGS AND
START LOOKING AT THE OCEAN
FLOOR.
>> Woodruff: FOR DAYS, CREWS ON
THE AUSTRALIAN NAVY VESSEL,
"OCEAN SHIELD," HAD BEEN
PREPARING A U.S. NAVY ROBOT
SUBMERSIBLE TO GO DEEP IN THE
INDIAN OCEAN.
THEIR CHANCE CAME TODAY, SIX
DAYS AFTER THE LAST KNOWN SIGNAL
FROM WHAT MAY BE THE PLANE'S
RECORDERS.
>> TODAY IS DAY 38 OF THE
SEARCH.
THE GUARANTEED SHELF LIFE OF THE
BATTERIES ON THE AIRCRAFT BLACK
BOXES IS 30 DAYS.
>> Woodruff: ANGUS HOUSTON IS
RUNNING THE SEARCH OFF HIS
COUNTRY'S WESTERN COAST.
>> DESPITE THE LACK OF FURTHER
DETECTIONS, THE FOUR SIGNALS
PREVIOUSLY ACQUIRED TAKEN
TOGETHER CONSTITUTE THE MOST
PROMISING LEAD WE HAVE IN THE
SEARCH FOR MH-370.
WE NEED TO PURSUE THIS LEAD AS
FAR AS POSSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: AS THIS ANIMATION
SHOWS,  THE SUBMERSIBLE, BLUEFIN
21, CAN CREATE A 3-D SONAR MAP
OF ANY DEBRIS ON THE OCEAN
FLOOR, BUT IT'S SLOW GOING.
EACH MISSION CAN TAKE UP TO 24
HOURS.
AND THIS FIRST TRIP WILL COVER
ONLY ABOUT 15 SQUARE MILES, IN A
SEARCH AREA THAT SPANS SOME
18,000 SQUARE MILES.
>> I WOULD CAUTION YOU AGAINST
RAISING HOPES THAT THE
DEPLOYMENT OF THE AUTONOMOUS
UNDERWATER VEHICLE WILL RESULT
IN THE DETECTION OF THE AIRCRAFT
WRECKAGE.
IT MAY NOT.
HOWEVER, THIS IS THE BEST LEAD
WE HAVE AND IT MUST BE PURSUED
VIGOROUSLY.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, AN
AERIAL SEARCH CONTINUES,
ALTHOUGH OFFICIALS SAY THE
CHANCE OF SPOTTING ANY DEBRIS IS
INCREASINGLY UNLIKELY.
INVESTIGATORS ARE ALSO ANALYZING
A SAMPLE FROM AN OIL SLICK, BUT
THAT PROCESS WILL TAKE SEVERAL
DAYS.
>> Woodruff: NOW THAT THE SEARCH
HAS SHIFTED, THERE ARE NEW
QUESTIONS PEOPLE HAVE ABOUT THE
SUBMERSIVE VEHICLE AND ITS ROLE.
DAVID KELLY IS THE C.E.O. OF
BLUEFIN ROBOTICS, WHICH MAKES
THE BLUEFIN-21
WELCOME TO THE NEWSHOUR,
GIVE US A SENSE OF THE TASK
THAT THIS ROBOTIC DEVICE IS
BEING ASKED TO PERFORM.
>> WELL, JUDY THE VEHICLE IS
RATED TO 4500 IMMEDIATERS OF
DEPTH WHICH IS TWO AND A
HALF MILES DOWN WHICH IS
ABOUT THE DEPTH OF THE OCEAN
IN THIS AREA.
AND IT WILL GO ON A SERIES
OF DIVES TO SURVEY THE OCEAN
BOTTOM AND COME BACK WITH
IMAGERY THAT CAN THEN BE
ANALYZED TO SEE IF THERE ARE
ANY OBJECTS OF INTEREST.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES IT GO
ABOUT DOING ITS JOB?
I MEAN WE SHOWED SOME OF THE
VISUAL ANIMATION THERE.
BUT ONCE IT GETS TO THE
BOTTOM OR CHOSE TO THE
BOTTOM, HOW DOES IT OPERATE?
>> WELL, THE VEHICLE IS WHAT
IS CALLED AUTONOMOUS.
THERE IS NO OPERATOR IN THE
LOOP.
SO IT IS PROGRAMMED ON THE
SURFACE FOR THE AREA TO BE
SURVEYED.
THE VEHICLE WILL DESCEND
DOWN THE TWO AND A HALF
MILES.
IT HAS NAVIGATION
INSTRUMENTS ON BOARD SO IT
KNOWS WHERE IT IS.
AS IT APPROACHES THE BOTTOM
IT WILL STOP ABOUT 50 METERS
ABOVE THE BOTTOM WHICH IS A
GOOD SURVEYING HEIGHT AND IT
WILL TON ON THE SONARS AND
IMAGE THE AREA.
AND THE SONARS CAN IMAGE
ABOUT HALF A MILE ACROSSMENT
AND IT WILL RUN PARALLEL
LINES JUST LIKE ARE YOU
MOWING YOUR LAWN AND IT WILL
GO BACK AND FORTH
OVERLAPPING.
AND THEN THAT DATA WILL BE
COLLECTED ON THE VEHICLE.
AND WHEN IT RETURNS TO THE
SURFACE THE DATA IS
OFFLOADED.
THE BATTERIES ON THE VEHICLE
ARE CHANGED, ANOTHER MISSION
IS PROGRAMMED.
THE VEHICLE IS RELAUNCHED
AND MEANWHILE THE DATA THAT
HAS BEEN RECORDED FROM THE
PRIOR MISSION IS PROCESSED
AND ANALYZED LOOKING FOR
OBJECTS.
>> AND AGAIN THESE ARE SONAR
IMAGES THAT IT'S BRINGING
BACK.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
AT THAT DEPTH IT'S
PITCH-BLACK.
IT'S SLIGHTLY ABOVE
FREEZING.
THERE'S TREMENDOUS PRESSURE
AND THE BEST SENSOR TO SCAN
A LARGE AREA IS A SONAR SO
THESE ARE IMAGES THAT ARE
PAINTED WITH SOUND, SO THE
OBJECTS LOOK SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT THAN IF YOU WERE
LOOKING AT IT WITH A CAME
RAMENT BUT THE ANALYST CAN
STILL SEE WHETHER AN OBJECT
IS MAN-MADE OR PART OF THE
NATURAL SURROUNDINGS AND
THAT IS THE KEY POINT THAT
THEY WOULD BE LOOKING FOR.
>> YOU MEAN BY THE SHAPE OF
IT?
>> CORRECT.
MOST OF THE OBJECTS IN
NATURE ARE GOING TO BE
ROUNDED.
YOU CAN TELL THE BOTTOM AND
MOST MAN-MADE OBJECTS WILL
HAVE SOME SHARP EDGES OR
RIGHT ANGLES AND THOSE ARE
SHOW UP ON THE SONAR
IMAGERY.
>> Woodruff: HOW DURABLE IS
THE SUBMERSIBLE.
WHAT DO YOU WORRY ABOUT IT
RUNNING INTO PROBLEMS IT
COULD RUN INTO DOWN THERE?
>> IT'S A VERY HARSH
ENVIRONMENT.
AND PRESSURE IS THE BIGGEST
ISSUE.
AT THAT DEPTH THE PRESSURE
IS ABOUT THREE AND A HALF
TONS PER SQUARE INCH THAT
WOULD BE THE EQUIV LEN OF
HAFING A CADILLAC ESCALATE
BALANCED ON YOUR THUMBNAIL.
SO THERE IS TREMENDOUS
PRESSURE ON THE VEHICLE AND
THE EQUIPMENT TESTIMONY IS A
TOUGH ENVIRONMENT TO OPERATE
IN.
>> Woodruff: WE'VE ALSO READ,
DAVID KELLY THAT THERE IS
SOME SILT IN THIS AREA, VERY
FINE SAND OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THAT AND
HOW MUCH OF AN ISSUE IS
THAT?
>> WE HAVE RUN OUR VEHICLES
AROUND THE GLOBE AND ALMOST
ALL THE OCEANS ACROSS MANY
BOTTOM TYPE.
SILT IS ONE TYPE OF BOTTOM.
THERE IS MUD, THERE IS SAND,
THERE IS ROCKS AM WILL YOU
GET DIFFERENT SONAR RETURNS
FROM THE DIFFERENT BOTTOM
TYPES AM YOU CAN ADJUST THE
EQUIPMENT TO DEAL WITH THAT.
SO AGAIN IT'S ENVIRONMENTS
WE'VE SEEN BEFORE.
>> Woodruff: SO IF SOMETHING
IS UNDER THE SILT OR HAS
SUNK INTO THE SILT IT COULD
STILL IMAGE IT S THAT WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING?
>>.
>> WELL, THE SONARS THAT ARE
USED WOULD IMAGE ON THE
SURFACE OF THE SILT.
SO IF AN OBJECT WAS DOWN
BELOW THE SILT IT WOULDN'T
NECESSARILY BE IMAGED.
>> Woodruff: WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT?
IF IT COMES BACK WITH AN
IMAGE THAT IS INTERESTING,
THAT PEOPLE, THAT THE
EXPERTS THINK COULD BE
SOMETHING, WHAT HAPPENS
THEN?
>> I THINK PROBABLY MOST
LIKELY THE NEXT STEP WOULD
BE GO GET A CAMERA IMAGE OF
IT.
THE BLUEFIN 21 THAT IS
DEPLOYED DOES HAVE A CAMERA
PAYLOAD.
IT'S A HIGH DEFINITION STILL
CAMERA.
TYPICALLY WHEN WE IMAGE AN
AREA ON THE OCEAN BOTTOM WE
WOULD REDUCE THE SIZE OF THE
AREA TO ABOUT 100 METERS
SQUARE, A HUNDRED YARDS
SQUARE.
THEY ALSO COULD SEND DOWN AN
ROV OR REMOTELY OPERATED
VEHICLE WITH A CAMERA.
BUT MOST LIKELY THEY WOULD
WANT TO GET A CAMERA IMAGE
OF AN OBJECT TO COMPARE THAT
WITH THE SONAR IMAGE, TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THEY HAVE.
>> Woodruff: DO I UNDERSTAND
YOU TO SAY THAT COULD BE
TAKING A PICTURE, A PHOTO AT
THE SAME TIME IT IS DOWN
THERE DOING THE SOUND
IMAGES.
>> NO, THOSE ARE TWO
SEPARATE PAY LODS.
THEY'RE SWAPABLE, EASILY
CHANGED ON THE SHIP.
BUT ONLY ONE OF THE PAYLOADS
CAN OPERATE AT A TIME.
AND IT HAS TO DO WITH THE
DIFFERENCE IN HEIGHT THAT
THE VEHICLE RUNS AT.
SO WHEN ARE YOU COLLECTING
SONAR IMAGERY THE HIGHER OFF
THE BOTTOM AT ABOUT 150 FEET,
WHEN ARE YOU TAKING A CAMERA
IMAGE LIGHT DOESN'T GO VERY
FAR AT THAT DEPTH AND IN
THAT DARKNESS SO YOU NEED TO
BE MUCH CLOSER TO THE BOTTOM,
ABOUT 15 FEET.
>> Woodruff: BASED ON WHAT
YOU KNOW, HOW REALISTIC DO
YOU BELIEVE THE ODDS ARE
THAT YOU'RE GOING TO BE ABLE
TO FIND WHAT'S LEFT OF THIS
AIRCRAFT?
>> WELL, THIS IS A TOUGH
CHALLENGE AND WE SALUTE THE
MEN AND WOMEN THAT HAVE BEEN
WORKING FOR A MONTH TO
RESOLVE THIS MYSTERY.
THEY HAVE OVER TIME HAVE
WORKED TO REDUCE THE SEARCH
AREA.
THEY'RE NOW FOCUSING THE
VEHICLE ON THOSE KERRS THAT
THEY THINK HAVE THE MOST
PROMISE.
BUT I THINK IN REALITY THIS
IS A TOUGH PROBLEM.
IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE
PERSISTENCE AND TENACITY AND
I THINK PEOPLE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND IT COULD TAKE
WEEKS, COULD TAKE MONTHS.
IT MAY BE TEDIOUS ON THE
OUTSIDE BUT YOU HAVE TO
FOLLOW A REGIMENTED
WELL-PLANNED SEARCH AND JUST
DOING MATICALLY EXECUTE IT.
>> Woodruff: DAVID KELLY
WITH BLUE FROIN OTICS, WE
THANK YOU FOR HELPING US
UNDERSTAND WHAT IS GOING ON.
>> THANK YOU
>> Ifill: TODAY'S PULITZER AWARD
TO "THE WASHINGTON POST" AND
"THE GUARDIAN" RENEWED DEBATE
OVER JOURNALISM'S ROLE AND
RESPONSIBILITY IN REPORTING ON
DOMESTIC SURVEILLANCE AND
NATIONAL SECURITY.
THE COVERAGE WAS BASED ON A
TROVE OF DOCUMENTS LEAKED BY
NATIONAL SECURITY CONTRACTOR
EDWARD SNOWDEN, WHO NOW LIVES IN
RUSSIA TO ESCAPE PROSECUTION.
U.S. OFFICIALS SAY SNOWDEN'S
REVELATIONS DID REAL DAMAGE,
WHILE HIS DEFENDERS SAY HE
PERFORMED A PUBLIC SERVICE.
GENEVA OVERHOLSER JOINS ME NOW.
SHE'S AN INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST
IN NEW YORK, AND A SENIOR FELLOW
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA'S ANNENBERG CENTER ON
COMMUNICATION, LEADERSHIP AND
POLICY.
SHE ALSO SERVED ON THE PULITZER
PRIZE BOARD FOR NINE YEARS.
GENEVA IS THE PULITZER BOARD
BASICALLY SETTLING THE
ARGUMENT TODAY BY SAYING
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO AWARD
THIS COVERAGE.
>> I WITH SAY THAT THE ARGUE
WILL NOT BE OVER AT LEAST IN
TERMS OF MANY PEOPLE'S
CONTINUED DISCOMFORT WITH
THIS REPORTING.
BUT I DO BELIEVE THIS IS AN
EXTROMLY POWERFUL
AFFIRMATION OF THIS
IMPORTANT WORK.
YOU KNOW, DIRECTOR AND
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE JAMES
CLAPPER AS YOU KNOW NOT
HAPPY WITH THIS IMPORTANT
WORK.
HE WAS QUOTED JUST YESTERDAY
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA
SAYING THIS IS POTENTIALLY
THE MOST DAMAGING THEFT OF
INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL IN OUR
COUNTRY'S HISTORY.
SO WHAT IS THE CORRECT
BALANCE BETWEEN SECURITY,
TRANSPARENCY AND JOURNALISM.
>> THERE'S ALWAYS ATTENTION
AND ALWAYS WILL BE.
AND BECAUSE EVEN THE MOST
RABID OF REPORTERS
UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE
NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES
THAT CANNOT BE AIRED.
BUT WE HAVE BEEN SEEING THE
GROWTH OF GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE, OF ITS OWN
CITIZENS PARTICULARLY OF THE
GROWTH OF SECRECY.
FOR MANY YEARS, PARTICULARLY
SINCE 9/11.
AND WHAT HAPPENED IN THIS
CASE IS THAT JOURNALISM'S
BIGGEST PRIZE WENT TO A
SERIES OF STORIES BASED ON
STOLEN DOCUMENTS, AND
CERTAINLY AS YOU SAID, THE
REVELATION OF STATE SECRETS,
DECRIED BY THE WHITE HOUSE.
BUT I THINK THEREFORE
PUTTING SQUARELY BEHIND
THESE STORIES THE AMERICAN
ESTABLISHMENT OF JOURNALISM
AND SAYING THIS IS IN THE
PUBLIC INTERESTS.
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED
JOURNALISM BASED ON STOLEN
DOCUMENTS, REMINDED ME OF
THE DANIELS-- DANIEL
ELSEBERG CASE.
>> EXACTLY.
>> AN IN 1972 THE SAME THING
HAPPENED.
THE PULITZER BOARD VERY
CONTROVERSIALALLY THEN GAVE
THE PULITZER TO THE
REPORTING BY "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" ON THE PENTAGON
PAPERS.
AND YOU KNOW, THAT WAS THE
FIRST TIME THAT HAD
HAPPENED.
SO THEY HAVE SORT OF ALREADY
CROSSED THAT BRIDGE ABOUT
BEING WILLING TO GIVE THE
PRIZE BASED ON STOLEN
DOCUMENTS.
>> Ifill: WHAT DID
JOURNALISTS SAY TO CRITICS
WHO SAY THAT EDWARD SNOWDEN,
WELL, ACTUALLY THE GLENN
GREENWALD AT THE GUARDIAN
AND AT THE POST BASICALLY
AGOED AS STENOGRAPHERS FOR
EDWARD SNOWDEN?
>> WBLTION YOU KNOW, I DON'T
FIND A WHOLE LOT OF VALUE IN
THAT, CHA.
IT IS TRUE THAT THESE
DOCUMENTS CAME TO THEM,
THEY -- HAVE TO GO OUT AND
DO A LOT OF DEEP REPORTING.
ON THE OTHER HAND, LOTS OF
GOOD REPORTING IS BASED ON
LEAKS, PARTICULARLY IN THESE
AREAS LIKE NATIONAL
SECURITY.
SO IF THIS REPORT, I MEAN IF
THIS PRIZE WERE GIVEN ONLY,
YOU KNOW, FOR REALLY DEEP
DIGGING REPORTEDDING THAN IT
WOULD BE MISPLACED, BUT IT'S
NOT IT WAS AWARDED TO THE
MOST AFFECTING STORY OF THIS
YEAR, IN MY VIEW.
AND THIS STORY HAD ENORMOUS
IMPACT.
THERE WAS A WHITE HOUSE
REVIEW.
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF HAS
SAID THERE NEEDED TO BE
STEPPED TAKEN IN TERMS OF
REIGNING IN THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY THERE HAVE
BEEN LEGAL STATEMENTS SAYING
THAT WHAT WAS REVEALED IN
THESE DOCUMENTS WAS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
SO I THINK THAT THE STORY
HAD PLENTY OF IMPACT AND TO
QUIBBLE ABOUT WELL, DID THEY
DO ENOUGH REPORTING IS JUST
WRONG.
THERE WAS PLENTY OF GOOD
JOURNALISM THAT WENT INTO
THIS.
A CHOICE IS MADE THE WAY IT
WAS PRESENTED.
AND VERY INTERESTINGLY, THE
COLLABORATION OF NOT ONLY
JOURNALISTS.
AS YOU KNOW THIS WENT TO TWO
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS AND
SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS.
>> CAN REPORTS EVER BE, YOU
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN GIVING
OUT THESE KINDS OF PRIZES
FOR SOME TIME.
CAN REPORTERS EVER BE
CONSIDERED ACCOMPLICES IN A
CASE LIKE THIS AND IS IT
SOMETHING THAT EVEN FACTORS
INTO YOUR THINKING?
>> WELL, THAT'S AN
INTERESTING POINT.
I MEAN YOU KNOW, REPORTERS
ARE ACCOMPLICES IN THAT THEY
ARE THE ONES WHO REVEAL THIS
INFORMATION.
THEY, OF COURSE, ARE NOT
CRIMINALLY LIABLE THE SAME
WAY THAT EDWARD SNOWEDIN WHO
SHARED THE INFORMATION IS.
AND MANY PEOPLE THINK THAT A
GRAVE INJUSTICE.
THIS COULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED
WITHOUT SNOWDEN AND MANY SEE
THIS AS A VINDICATION OF
HIM.
WE'LL HAVE TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS ON THAT REGARD.
BUT PARTICULARLY IN TERMS OF
GLENN GREENWALD WHO AS YOU
KNOW IS INVOLVED IN THE
GUARDIAN STORY.
AND WHO IS FRANKLY, A
JOURNALIST WHO WRITES FROM A
POINT OF VIEW.
AND I THINK THAT'S ANOTHER
INTERESTING THING ABOUT THIS
STORY, THAT THAT KIND OF
REPORTING HAS RECEIVED AN
AFFIRMATION.
IT IS AN INCREASING-- WE'RE
GOING TO SEE MORE OF IT.
AND THE PULITZER INCLUDED
HIS WORK.
>> Ifill: WELL, THAT
REMINDED ME OF WIKILEAKS AND
JULIAN A SANG AND OTHER WAYS
OF GETTING INFORMATION NOT
PUBLIC SPHERE WHICH CAUSED
CONTROVERSY.
IS THERE A LINE ANY MORE
BETWEEN ACTIVISM AND
JOURNALISM IN.
>> WELL, MANY PEOPLE WOULD
SAY THIS WAS ACTIVISM.
SOME PEOPLE WOULD SAY ALL
KINDS OF JOURNALISM IS
ACTIVISM.
I THINK THAT ONE REASSURANCE
HERE, I DONE KNOW IF THERE
IS A LINE BUT IN THIS CASE,
WHAT WE SAW WAS A
COLLABORATION AS I SAID THAT
INCLUDED PROFESSIONAL
JOURNALISTS AT THE HIGHEST
STANDARDS, "THE WASHINGTON
POST," THE GUARDIAN.
THESE ARE VERY RESPONSIBLE
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS.
SO HAS A NEWS ORGANIZATION
LEAK THE GUARDIAN EVER
RECEIVED A PULITZER PRIZE
BEFORE.
>> STRICTLY SPEAKING THAT
WANT TO THE GUARDSIAN U.S.
THAT IS HOW IT FIT THE RULES
BUT AS WE ALL KNOW THE
GUARDIAN WHICH IS BASED IN
THE UNITED KINGDOM AS BEEN
DOING VERY AGGRESSIVE
JOURNALISM ON THIS.
AND YOU KNOW IN SOME WAYS
INTERESTING LEE TENG-HU
TENG-HUI-- INTERESTINGLY,
THE COLLABORATION HELPED IT
AVOID CENSORSHIP IN THE
UNITED STATES-- I MEAN IN
THE U.K. BECAUSE THE REACH
OF THIS JOURNALISM HASENTO WE A.
>> Ifill: SO INTERESTING,
AGAIN EVERA OVERHOLZER,
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
HELPING US THROUGH THIS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
APPEALED FOR U.N. PEACEKEEPERS,
AS PRO-RUSSIAN GUNMEN CONTROLLED
KEY BUILDINGS IN TEN EASTERN
CITIES.
KS
GROUND THEY GAVE UP LAST WEEK.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS GAINED
ALMOST 150 POINTS.
AND ORGANIZERS OF THE SEARCH FOR
A MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINER
DEPLOYED A ROBOT SUBMERSIBLE TO
BEGIN HUNTING ON THE INDIAN
OCEAN FLOOR.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, THE LATEST U.N.
CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT PREDICTS
MASSIVE POLICY CHANGES WILL BE
NEEDED IF THE WORLD IS TO CURB
IT'S CARBON EMISSIONS.
ARE THERE SOLUTIONS IN SIGHT?
HARI SREENIVASAN INVITED ONE OF
THE AUTHORS OF THE REPORT TO A
GOOGLE HANGOUT YESTERDAY.
YOU CAN WATCH A VIDEO OF THAT
INTERVIEW ON THE RUNDOWN.
AND, ONE YEAR AFTER THE BOSTON
MARATHON BOMBING, TWO BROTHERS
WHO EACH LOST A LEG IN THE
ATTACK TALK ABOUT THEIR
STRUGGLES AND TRIUMPHS THESE
LAST TWELVE MONTHS, WITH OUR
MEMBER STATION W.G.B.H. THAT
CONVERSATION IS ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
FUTURE OF MYANMAR'S
ARCHITECTURAL AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL
PAST, AS THE COUNTRY OPENS UP TO
THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.